REPL command in project requires a target (#10684)
haskell/cabal: changelog.d/pr-10684.md

---
synopsis: "A project target is required for the REPL command"
packages: [cabal-install]
prs: 10684
issues: 10527
---

With a project, the REPL command requires a target. If one is not given then a
message is shown explaining this and naming the project if the `--project-file`
option was given (but not when the default 'cabal.project' project name is used
implicitly).  We're not yet able to list project targets so in the meantime, the
messages lists the packages of the project.

* When the implicit default `cabal.project` is used:

```
$ cat cabal.project
packages: pkg-one pkg-two

$ cabal repl
Error: [Cabal-7076]

> With a project, the REPL command requires a single target. The packages in this project are:
>  - pkg-one
>  - pkg-two

Reviewer: I'm not sure it's a good idea to silently blur the distinction between targets and packages like this. Something like
```suggestion
With a project, the REPL command requires a single target. You can find possible targets by inspecting the packages in this project:
 - pkg-one
 - pkg-two
```

Author: I've changed the message to be more specific. It says "pick a single [package:][ctype:]component as target for the REPL command". This is the [component target syntax](https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cabal-commands.html#target-forms) from the "Target Forms" section of the docs.
